feat(appsync): grant APIs for managing permissions (#8993)
aws/aws-cdk: packages/@aws-cdk/aws-appsync/README.md

---
<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

The `@aws-cdk/aws-appsync` package contains constructs for building flexible
APIs that use GraphQL. 

### Example

GraphQL schema file `schema.graphql`:

```gql
type demo {
  id: String!
  version: String!
}
type Query {
  getDemos: [ test! ]
}
input DemoInput {
  version: String!
}
type Mutation {
  addDemo(input: DemoInput!): demo
}
```

> Stack file `app-stack.ts` with auth `IAM`:

Reviewer: since this README is translated and published to each of the package managers, it's better to provide a description of what the snippet exemplifies

```ts
import * as appsync from '@aws-cdk/aws-appsync';
import * as db from '@aws-cdk/aws-dynamodb';

const api = new appsync.GraphQLApi(stack, 'Api', {
  name: 'demo',
  schemaDefinitionFile: join(__dirname, 'schema.graphql'),
  authorizationConfig: {
    defaultAuthorization: {
      authorizationType: appsync.AuthorizationType.IAM
    },
  },
});

const demoTable = new db.Table(stack, 'DemoTable', {
  partitionKey: {
    name: 'id',
    type: AttributeType.STRING,
  },
});

const demoDS = api.addDynamoDbDataSource('demoDataSource', 'Table for Demos"', demoTable);

demoDS.createResolver({
  typeName: 'Query',
  fieldName: 'getDemos',
  requestMappingTemplate: MappingTemplate.dynamoDbScanTable(),
  responseMappingTemplate: MappingTemplate.dynamoDbResultList(),
});

demoDS.createResolver({
  typeName: 'Mutation',
  fieldName: 'addDemo',
  requestMappingTemplate: MappingTemplate.dynamoDbPutItem(PrimaryKey.partition('id').auto(), Values.projecting('demo')),
  responseMappingTemplate: MappingTemplate.dynamoDbResultItem(),

> });

Reviewer: might  be worth adding comments to describe what this is doing as it's not likely to be intuitive to a new user

```

## Permissions

When using `AWS_IAM` as the authorization type for GraphQL API, an IAM Role

> with correct permissions must be used for access to API.

Reviewer: should probably have a sub-section for each supported authorization type. I think we'll want that for each of. for this PR, let's keep it to the section's you're adding 

*  API Keys (API_KEY)
* Amazon Cognito User Pools (AMAZON_COGNITO_USER_POOLS)
* OpenID Connect (OPENID_CONNECT)
* AWS Identity and Access Management (AWS_IAM)

Author: i was going to do this in a separate PR because i still need the chore up a lot of the repo

When configuring permissions, you can specify specific resources to only be
accessible by `IAM` authorization. For example, if you want to only allow mutability
for `IAM` authorized access you would configure the following.

In `schema.graphql`:
```ts
type Mutation {
  updateExample(...): ...
    @aws_iam
}
```

In `IAM`:
```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
      {
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Action": [
            "appsync:GraphQL"
         ],
         "Resource": [
            "arn:aws:appsync:REGION:ACCOUNT_ID:apis/GRAPHQL_ID/types/Mutation/fields/updateExample"
         ]
      }
   ]
}
```

See [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appsync/latest/devguide/security.html#aws-iam-authorization) for more details.

> To make this easier, CDK employees `grant` functions to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make this easier, CDK provides `grant` API to 
```

incomplete sentence...

Use the `grant` function for more granular authorization.

> ```ts

Reviewer: add a 1 liner to describe the code example the user is about to see

const role = new iam.Role(stack, 'Role', {
  assumedBy: new iam.ServicePrincipal('lambda.amazonaws.com'),
});
const api = new appsync.GraphQLApi(stack, 'API', {
  definition
});

api.grant(role, appsync.IamResource.custom('types/Mutation/fields/updateExample'), 'appsync:GraphQL')
```

### IamResource

In order to use the `grant` functions, you need to use the class `IamResource`.

- `IamResource.custom(...arns)` permits custom ARNs and requires an argument.

- `IamResouce.ofType(type, ...fields)` permits ARNs for types and their fields.

> - `IamResource.all()` permits ALL resources.

Reviewer: don't believe this needs a section. I think it's more of an implementation detail that we can document and illustrate in the examples above.

Author: I think it is important because it's a core part of how the `grant` function works. If the README is the one stop shop to understanding how to use the package, I think that having a section that describes `IamResource` is important for customers needing to use `AWS_IAM` for authorization

### Generic Permissions

Alternatively, you can use more generic `grant` functions to accomplish the same usage.

These include:
```
grantMutation
grantQuery
grantSubscription
grantType
grantFullAccess

> ```

Reviewer: make this a list - it's not really a code snippet - a 1 line description of when the API would/should be used would be the most helpful thing for users
